Repo layout (adding logs, models, indexes, runs), MS MARCO passage replication doc (#24)
castorini/pygaggle: docs/experiments-msmarco-passage.md

# PyGaggle: Neural Ranking Baselines on [MS MARCO Passage Retrieval](https://github.com/microsoft/MSMARCO-Passage-Ranking)

This page contains instructions for running various neural reranking baselines on the MS MARCO *passage* ranking task. 

> Note that there is also a separate [MS MARCO *document* ranking task](experiments-msmarco-doc.md).

Reviewer: The link is broken

Prior to running this, we suggest looking at our first-stage [BM25 ranking instructions](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-passage.md).

> We rerank the BM25 run files that contain ~ 1000 passages per query using both monoBERT and monoT5.

Reviewer: there an extra space between ~ and 1000

Reviewer: Perhaps add a sentence explaining that _"monoBERT and monoT5 are pointwise rerankers, that is, each document is score independently using either BERT or T5"._

> Keeping computational resources in mind, our instructions primarily focus on a 105 query subset of the MS MARCO dev set. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since it can take many hours to run these models on all 6980 queries from the MS MARCO dev set, we will use instead a subset of 105 queries randomly sampled from that set. 
```

Running these instructions with the entire MS MARCO dev set should give about the same results as that in the corresponding paper. 

> *Note: Run the following instructions at root of this repo. Installation must have been done from source. Make sure that you have access to a GPU*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note 1: Run the following instructions at root of this repo.
Note 2: Installation must have been done from source.
Note 3: Make sure that you have access to a GPU
```

```
wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/5xa5vjbjle0c8jv/msmarco_ans_small.zip -P data
```

To confirm, `msmarco_ans_small.zip` should have MD5 checksum of `65d8007bfb2c72b5fc384738e5572f74`.

Next, we extract the contents into `data`. 

```
unzip msmarco_ans_small.zip -d data
```

As a sanity check, we can evaluate the first-stage retrieved documents using the official MS MARCO evaluation script.

```
python evaluate/msmarco/msmarco_eval.py data/msmarco_ans_small/qrels.dev.small.tsv data/msmarco_ans_small/run.dev.small.tsv
```

The output should be:

```
#####################
MRR @10: 0.15906651549508694
QueriesRanked: 105
#####################
```

Let's download and extract the pre-built MS MARCO index into `indexes`:

```
wget https://git.uwaterloo.ca/jimmylin/anserini-indexes/raw/master/index-msmarco-passage-20191117-0ed488.tar.gz -P indexes
tar xvfz indexes/index-msmarco-passage-20191117-0ed488.tar.gz -C indexes
```

## Model Prep

Let's download and extract monoBERT into `models`:

```

> wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/jr0hpksboh7pa48/monobert_msmarco_large.zip -P models

Reviewer: Perhaps we should use BERT-base so it is a fairer comparison with T5-base?

Author: I think T5-base is situated in between BERT-base and BERT-large in terms of model complexity right? Based on that, I feel like we should just go with T5-base. We can point out that on running the entire set T5-base will perform better than BERT-base (just randomness in this subset).

Reviewer: SGTM!

unzip models/monobert_msmarco_large.zip -d models
```

While running the re-ranking script with the monoT5 model, it is automatically downloaded from Google Cloud Storage. 

Now, we can begin with re-ranking the set.

## Re-Ranking with monoBERT

First, lets evaluate using monoBERT!

```
python -um pygaggle.run.evaluate_passage_ranker --split dev \
	                                            --method seq_class_transformer \
	                                            --model-name-or-path models/monobert_msmarco_large \
	                                            --data-dir data/msmarco_ans_small/ \
	                                            --index-dir indexes/index-msmarco-passage-20191117-0ed488 \
	                                            --dataset msmarco \
	                                            --output-file runs/run.monobert.ans_small.dev.tsv
```

Upon completion, the following output will be visible:

```
precision@1	0.2761904761904762
recall@3	0.42698412698412697
recall@50	0.8174603174603176
recall@1000	0.8476190476190476
mrr	0.41089693612003686
mrr@10	0.4026795162509449
```

> It takes about ~ 52 minutes to re-rank this subset on MS MARCO using a P100. 

Reviewer: there should be no space between tilde and 52

The type of GPU will directly influence your inference time. 
It is possible that the default batch results in a GPU OOM error.
In this case, assigning a batch size (using option `--batch-size`) which is smaller than the default (96) should help!

The re-ranked run file `run.monobert.ans_small.dev.tsv` will also be available in the `runs` directory upon completion. 

> We can use this to verify that the MRR@10 is indeed right using the official MS MARCO evaluation script:

Reviewer: remove "right"?
